Standing on my porch in the sunset
looking out at my land weaving drunk, 
I am king.
There is my hand
on the prow of the porch.
There is the autumn sand
in my hair.
There are the miniature football players
pinning each other to the ground
behind the middle school.
I will give them sailor hats and call them my crew,
and I will set sail, and I will find you,
and whatever else I see
then I will be the king of that also.
I know things that could crack hearts open
like coconuts.
I am just like your friend with the weird eye
because he held it crossed for too long.

All I want to eat is
fruit rubbed in ginger, warm
fruit with all the sugars
opened up and blooming.
All I want to eat are
flowers, crispy watered-
down leaves and petals

Alone with trees,
chalky lights, self
snake from town
to town: all Amtrak
passengers traveling
to Chicago, Toledo,
make tracks, leave
trail, the desperate
travel towards, stars
through curtains, all
travel pillows across
the Rust Belt, saline
parking blurs, white
knee socks, inexorable
suitcase,  polyester
blue, Cleveland aflame
in the distance, o
how I have lost you
coast to coast.

is, as I have by now
demonstrated, foretold.
It can’t not happen.
One is to one’s shadow
as one’s future is to one.
And as attached.

When I am with you 
I feel I am not just 
myself, but rather 
double myself, my 
consciousness laid 
out one on top of 
itself like a double
yolked egg, which 
is to say auspiciously.
I might therefore feel 
the need to vow myself
to you.
I love you obsessively, 
biologically. I love you 
with sincere greed. I am 
never doing this again.

On the sand
by the water
is a child
in a sunhat
scooping sand
from the water
and pouring it
onto the sand.
Scoop by scoop, the sand
grows higher until it is
taller than all the other sand,
and some passing by call it
a castle.
But it is not
a castle.
You could not lift that sand
without lifting the sand
beneath it,
and all the sand
is nothing
but grain on grain
on grain on grain
on grain on grain
on grain.
Were the child
to crush the sand,
or the sea to take it,
or the sun to dry it
until it collapses,
so that those passing by
see only the ordinary
windswept landscape
sloping toward the waves,
it would still be
grain on grain
on grain on grain,
on grain.
Were the sea
to grind the sand,
or the wind to swoop down on it
and blow it all away,
the sand would be no different.
Maybe smaller,
or smoother,
or wetter, or cooler,
or bleached, or darkened
until it’s indistinguishable
from dirt.
But even then,
if you saw sand
on the sidewalk
by the subway
it would still be
grain on grain
on grain on grain
on grain.

If the wedding is foretold,
it is therefore also only
a formality.
Union always exists
before it occurs.

Cover the walls with white sheets and project 
Swedish pornography onto the ceiling. As the 
night wears on, break the potted plants open 
and throw their dirt everywhere, especially at 
your loved ones. No! Rename everyone who 
walks in the door. Their name is now George! 
Resurrect the many great misogynists who bore 
this name. Invite only strangers. Serve only 
petit fours. No! It is spring! Decorate with 
snow made of warm feathers and order ice 
sculptures in the shapes of motorcycles and 
pack animals, so the guests can ride, can feel 
the power of a thousand pounds of pure frozen 
water between their thighs. No. The theme is 
‘absolute last night on Earth.’ At a party like 
that everyone knows you can’t come back once 
you leave, even just for a cigarette. Everyone 
knows it’s forever, which is the message you 
want to send. That’s it. That’s the theme. Run 
with it. Cover a wall in butcher paper and attach
Sharpies to the wall with ribbons so your guests 
can write their own epitaphs. This is the theme.
Bake it into a creatively-shaped cake that you can 
smash into your partner’s face like, Here, eat it.

Standing in the darkness 
in the middle of the room
you say, Well, can I take 
off my underwear? And though 
I am not there to see it happen, 
in the church down the street 
the mouths at the height of the organ 
begin to flap airlessly, to soundlessly 
yawp, into the dark emptiness over 
the bodiless pews—yes.
Yes.

I once knew a house in Maine, and in this house there was a hallway that doubled as the landing to a staircase whose top was boarded up. I climbed up and up those stairs without ever arriving. This room had the illusion of possibility, but no way of climbing out.
Translation is like climbing up these stairs. Each new part on top and forward. An endless ascent. A room both confined and limitless.
A staircase can be a room, also. I was king of that room, also.
Translation is the handing over from one to another of something inherently shifty. Pouring water from one cupped pair of hands to another. The spillage that happens between the fingers, the sweat and the particles of skin. The seeping in.
I have this dream where an egg breaks and turns into two eggs and the yolks meld and become a person. What a dream, to be a person. A single, unified being. What a dream to be one! One single sublime yellow center. Then I wake, and as always, I am fractured, split, splitting, always becoming, ever more one and always double.
Inexorable suitcase, polyester blue. What is it about this line? Is it that it is both four unrelated words, and a piece in itself. Isn’t what this whole concert is? Louise, Ursula, Lauren, Galen—Galen, Lauren, Fontaine, John. Four authors, four collaborators, climbing ceaselessly into each other, disappearing into the depths of union. Yes, but also. The eternal also. The locked trunk banging itself open.
I am thinking about the endless truth of old stories and why we can’t leave them alone. Picking at them like errant hairs. The retelling and retelling, feeding ourselves into them, yanking at them endlessly like the clown with his endless silk scarf. These stories won’t quit us. It comes to a point where we are no longer working from a common prototype. Instead, we are telling the stories of the stories, the originals lost in the back of a drawer of a desk now in storage. It is a copy of a copy, a tale three times removed, until it is reduced to gossip.
Another line: the desperate travel towards. Here is the constant moving on the road to the unnamed, the unnameable. Is this, too, the endless, boarded-up staircase? I see us there, clawing at the ceiling, smashing the house apart just to emerge, panting and dust-blind, on the second floor. And then what? We track the evidence through the bedrooms, proudly ridding ourselves of it on the wall-to-wall carpeting, before we crawl back through the hole again, back to the kitchen, to make ourselves a snack.
I am thinking about the you that I dreamt up and wrapped up in your voice. The one a mile or a room or a screen away, whose opinions I know, whether or not you know you have them. Perhaps this is the you whose number (and Livejournal address and AIM screen name) I still know by heart, though they lead nowhere. This is not the you whose number I memorized to write on the doctor’s form, or the you who knows the science of my facial ticks.
I am thinking, also, about the me I think you see—un-caulkably cracked in the center. Wrapped up in partnership is the basic promise to care for oneself, to kneel down and examine the fractured place, to brave Home Depot and buy the requisite supplies rather than simply shifting the rug over a foot and forgetting about it.
I am thinking about migratory birds. And the line, all travel pillows across the rust belt. Empty trains carrying objects of comfort across the plains, through the dusty cities, past carcasses of sun-treated buildings. Or perhaps pillow is an action. All travel balloons soft stuffing in a Great Lakes embrace.
Marrying a person is like strapping yourself to a life raft. There is a home, but it’s unmoored. Home, for me, means kitchen, bed, plants, books. Marriage means none of these things. I am thinking, again, of boundedness and boundlessness. In sickness and in health. In presence and in absence. In ways we do not understand. This is the promise to love and care for a person who does not yet exist, a person you will not recognize.
I will set sail and I will find you. Perhaps you are somewhere under the water. Just below the surface I see the salmon hurling toward the river, to die. This is not you. I keep looking. Perhaps you are above me, tethered to the current, like the puffin returning from her summer home, writing her mid-flight to do list and wondering how much longer.
There are degrees of comfort. I wade in. First: a toe. Then: up to my knees, the tender mounds twitching against the cold. Later: my crotch, my navel, my cupped hands pushing the water away, as though I could tunnel back to dry land. Meanwhile, you are throwing boiling water by the kettleful. It’s no matter: soon my head will go under and then nothing can surprise me until my feet come free from the rock-strewn ground.
I am thinking about loneliness: the thick face of ivy that spreads between us. The parasitic plant slowly eating its host, its home.
I am thinking about all the brokenness—egg, flowerpot, coconut. Everything wrenched open, the insides unfurled on the hardwood floor. I am thinking about the cyanide inside the apple and the childhood myth of a watermelon growing in one’s stomach. There is danger inside the sweetness. 
The silence is my voice pursuing you. The woman’s voice. The grasping after something just out of reach. You hear a voice you find attractive. Or you hear a voice and you know you will find its person attractive. Slightly nasal, quiet, higher than one might expect looking at them but with an undercurrent of you can’t sit here. You sit there.
The king is a woman. The woman. The one. The only one. One of many. A woman in a sea of women. The woman in a sea of—
How I have lost you/coast to coast. You: a one-way plane ticket past the flyover states. Lost: an act that results in a state of being. I walk past the place where we had our weekly brunch and fall through a hole in time. Suddenly, it is 2006, and I am waiting for you—late as ever—under an awning, avoiding the rain. I see you come around the corner, but when you turn, you are in fact not you but a college-age woman in a color you would never wear. Union always exists before it occurs. Union, here, is act of folding palm into palm. You cannot have union without initial separation. Union: The moment when my dog starts recognizing you; the moment when your autocorrect first gets my name right; the first lunch; the first dinner; the first time you wake up thinking of me; the fifteenth time we sleep in bed together, which is the first also the first time I cry.
There is a loss inherent in joining. This is one of the things that we don’t talk about. I don’t mean the change in morning routine. I’m talking about the time when you feel the warmth of your thermos through the bag on your lap and mistake it for the hand of a stranger, and the moment after that when you realize your confusion and are disappointed.
I am thinking about the loss inherent in translation. A poem sung is no longer a poem read. A poem in the air is a poem without a page. A word heard is different than a word seen. And so I am thinking about the inevitable failure of categories. What is their intention? To contain? To profess? To provide safety in numbers? Sure, but at the expense of those left clinging to the boundaries, trying to build in the no-man’s-land that nobody else will admit exists.
I am thinking about anaphora. About the slow and the fast shifting of what once was. I am thinking about the lines we draw. Lines that separate and lines that join. Lines that string each to the next. Penelope to the butterfly to the prow of the porch. Penelope to Odysseus to the needles falling in his face. How did we get here?
I have written about all of these things before. My obsessions don’t change. But maybe they are
different now that I am different. Maybe I am married to them.

Notebook (Epithalamion)
In the honey of August afternoon we come home and are so tired, covered in salt.
Partnership is: that when something happens, one has someone to report it to.  
This the only discernable advantage of living your life with someone else.
The night before I’m cleaning my house listening to Beyoncé.
The darkness outside and all the lights on on the inside.
I think about how Galen must be feeling.  I don’t think about how John must be feeling.
and I don’t need air in my lungs
if I can’t sing your songs—
no, I don’t need hands
if I don’t get to keep you warm
and I don’t really need myself
if I don’t need you.
Galen looks resolutely forward—sometimes I think she is 
the smartest person in my life—but John makes eye contact 
while he’s walking down the aisle.  I lose control.  In this way
wedding and funeral are the same.  I am full of unnameable 
terrible affection for this man, whom I fear, with whom I’ve 
gone grocery shopping.  My face unhinges and the velvety 
joy sadness is visible through the opening.  I need John
to know I love him
biologically, at my DNA.  In my skin.  His joy melts me.
I didn’t know you could care about living people this much.
Later someone says to Fontaine
that a woman came in, sat down, and immediately lost her shit, sobbing.
Even before anything had happened.
What did she look like? asked Fontaine.
Zebra dress, said the woman.
Objectively I know it’s going to happen.
I see it on the page.
MUSIC: JOHN WEST
WORDS: LAUREN CLARK
SELECTIONS from EPITHALAMION
I married a man in my dreams
and in my dreams our DNA combined
into a clot of cells.  And whether 
or not this clot of cells came to pass
it existed, once, and as we know from experience
nothing ever really dies.  It was born 
pale and bloodless in a white room
the most perfect room, the room
where we stood, once, in the mirror, 
together, staring at our blue hearts
through our whitely transparent skins
brushing our individual teeth
with two different toothbrushes.
I don’t really need these fingers
if I don’t get to touch your spine
and I don’t need these legs
if I ain’t walking by your side
and I don’t really need to be
if I can’t be with you.
John and Galen do not walk down the aisle to Epithalamion.
It happens before that—a single woman’s voice in the organ cell above the altar—
and it breaks down my body.
The dream I had about my wedding, the dream of the man
I loved on every marble stair, cutting 
his thick brown curls late at night 
when no one is asleep, it springs 
to life—splits and reproduces, 
over and over, onto everyone 
I know, love for one breath 
explodes into love for every
from John, from Galen
And the way I have watched him
through the internet 
and have dreamed him
and watched in everyone else
for his movements, signs
I still exist
and they exist
and the curtains
and the early morning light
I never told him about the cells.
Whether they lived is not the point.
Dreams too exist.  And his.
The explosive joy of the song John has chosen for the moment he and Galen leave the 
church—toccata for a wall of organ—the whole church makes a mighty noise, a bellow, a 
screech, a howling, we waited quietly and long enough to believe that two people could 
become to each other enough but not all, required but not necessary, reflection but not 
form, their vows are mirrors and neither cries, and they tell each other they will be for 
one another and there is nothing to do but scream for the future, which I need to not 
include the person inside whose memory I have lived and lived so long, they promise to 
try to love themselves as much as they love each other, and what a glorious promise, 
compounded by the promise of the music.
Then there’s Fontaine dancing wildly in the darkness, kicking her legs out, leaning almost 
double, spraying her hands, to Paul Simon.
